# Multilingual support

!> This page is translated by Google Translate, Click **Edit Document** on the top left corner if you want to help the project out!

The Engine 2.0 version provides a lightweight, international feature that makes it easy to write multilingual UI interfaces. This feature is provided by a series of scripts in `script/lib/i18n`. The Chinese, English and Japanese languages ​​are supported by default. I18n originated from the English word `internationalization` because it starts with i and ends with n, which is named after a total of 18 letters.

## Introduction

1.  For ease of management, you first need to declare the initialization script in `i18n_init` and execute it, for example
    ```gml
    i18n_init_my_test()
    ```
2.  Create a new script, `i18n_init_my_test`, in which the`i18n_add` script is used to define the contents of the multi-language strings. The order of the parameters is "Identifier, Chinese, English, Japanese". E.g:

    ```gml
    i18n_add('my_test', 'Test', 'test', 'テスト')
    i18n_add('you_typed', 'You entered: ${0}.', 'You typed: ${0}.', 'あなたは${0} broke in. ')
    ```

    That is, the `i18n identifier` named `my_test` is added to the multilingual character library. Where `${0}` is a placeholder, it can be replaced later by passing in extra arguments.

    ?> It is recommended to use [snake nomenclature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_case) to name identifiers, which effectively avoids misuse of strings. At a minimum, the identifier and the string it represents should be different from each other.

3.  When you want to use these strings, use:

    ```gml
    // Assuming the current language is Chinese // Get the value of my_test under the current language setting i18n_get('my_test') // Test
    // Get the value of you_typed in the current language setting and replace {0} with some message
    i18n_get('you_typed', 'some message') // You entered :some message.
    ```

    You can get the corresponding string according to the currently set language.

4.  If you need a function like `draw` or `show_message`, add `i18n_` before it to get international content automatically, for example:

    `Create Event`:

    ```gml
    str = i18n_get_integer('my_test', str)
    // If you need to replace the placeholder, you need to manually call i18n_get
    i18n_show_message(i18n_get('you_typed', str))
    ```

    `Draw Event`:

    ```gml
    // Simultaneously set horizontal and vertical alignment
    i18n_draw_set_align(fa_center, fa_middle)
    i18n_draw_text(400, 304, 'my_test')
    ```

    !> When using a script such as `draw_text_color` whose name contains color, the built-in function has 4 color parameters, which represent the colors of the four corners. Due to the limitation of the function of the plug-in, the i18n series function has only two color parameters, representing Gradient from top to bottom. For example `i18n_draw_text_color(x, y, string, color1, color2, alpha)`

## default language

The default language is set in the script `setGlobals`, which can be `LANG_CN`, `LANG_EN` or `LANG_JP`.

## List of i18n scripts

Please refer to [Script Documentation](/scriptref?id=i18n)
